# Skepticoin

_A Previous-Generation Peer to Peer digital currency with a focus on simplicity._

Satoshi Nakamoto's development of Bitcoin in 2009 has often been hailed as a
radical development in money and currency, being the first example of a digital
asset which simultaneously has no backing or intrinsic value and no centralized
issuer or controller. 

However, another - arguably more important - part of the Bitcoin experiment is
that of a never-ending race between technobabble and promises of future utility
on the one hand, and cold hard reality on the other. Attention is rapidly
starting to shift to this other aspect of Bitcoin.

Commonly cited alternative applications of blockchain technology include using
on-blockchain digital assets to represent custom currencies and financial
instruments (colored coins), the ownership of an underlying physical device
(smart property), non-fungible assets such as domain names (Namecoin), as well
as more complex applications involving having digital assets being directly
controlled by a piece of code implementing arbitrary rules (smart contracts) or
even blockchain-based decentralized autonomous organizations (DAOs).

Skepticoin intends to provide none of this. Instead, it tries to be as a coin
that is as simple and unoriginal as possible. Rather than making you wonder
whether it is the Next Big Thing, it makes you wonder whether any of the
previous ones ever were.

## What is Skepticoin?

Skepticoin is a peer-to-peer digital currency that enables you to send money
online. It's also the central community of people who think that's bullshit.

#### What's your problem with Crypto?

Crypto-currencies are fine when viewed as a technological curiosity. If you
actually believe that blockchains are the future, that bitcoin is a store of
value, or that non-fungible tokens are anything but a scam, things get problematic.

#### Why a coin then?

Crypto-enthousiasts have an incentive to be loud about crypto-currency: the
more other people they convince, the richer they themselves become. Crypto-sceptics
are a silent majority: they have no such incentive, so you never hear them.
Skepticoin changes that, by making the sceptics invested in a coin themselves.

## Goals & motto

* 1 SC equals 1 BTC
* Not "to the moon", but "into the ground"

## Frequently Asked Questions

**Q:** Is this a real coin?

**A:** Skepticoin is every bit as real as Bitcoin and its many clones.

---

**Q:** Is this some kind of joke?

**A:** You can laugh all you want, but we all know you're just trying to hide your fear of missing out.

---

**Q:** Isn't this basically Dogecoin?

**A:** No. Dogecoin started as a fun and friendly internet coin, but it didn't take long before it got completely overrun
       by money-hungrey speculators of the worst kind. Skepticoin was founded on a firm disbelief in cryptocurrency. Whether
       it will be completely overrun by speculators remains to be seen.

---

**Q:** Is it safe to put my life savings into skepticoin?

**A:** [No](https://github.com/skepticoin/skepticoin/blob/master/docs/security.md)

---

**Q:** Is this some kind of get rich quick scheme?

**A:** If you're asking you're probably looking for one. If you're buying skepticoin in the hope that some greater fool
       will buy them from you at a higher price, just know that, on average, it's likely that you're the greatest fool.


## Frequently raised objections

**O:** I can't buy skepticoin at an exchange -- this means it's not a "real" coin!

**A:** You have that exactly backwards: Skepticoin is a peer-to-peer digital currency, which means it's independent from
       established financial institutions such as exchanges. This independence is precisely its strength! You aren't
       trying to suggest that cryptocurrency's main claim to fame is untrue, are you?

---

**O**: If you're so against cryptocurrency, starting a coin of your own is hypocritical.

**A**: The ability to hold 2 directly opposing thoughts in your head is the core of cryptocurrency. If you can't do that
       then this indeed isn't for you.

---

**O**: This thing is fugly and way too technical. It will never gain traction among a sufficiently large group of fools
       without a pretty GUI.

**A**: Patience, young grasshopper, everything at its time. First we bring in the techies who bring their thorough
       understanding of crypto-nonsense and steadfast determination to bring it all down to the ground. The tech
       illiterate are only allowed to join the lower ranks of the pyramid, so that GUI must wait a bit.

---

**O**: This so called whitepaper isn't a _real whitepaper_. In fact, it's just a thinned-out version of the project's
       README with some barely veiled plagiarism thrown in at the top.

**A**: You are very close to _true insight_ in the nature of cryptocurrencies.
